Cassandra
feature:
(1) geographically distributed(abstract)
(2) treat failure as norm rather than exception(1)
	metadata stored at Zookeeper for crashes and come back(5.2)
	node outage usually transient, rarily signifies a permanent departure(5.4)
(3) support continuously growth of platform(1) 
	high scalability
(4) handle write throughput while ensure read efficiency(abstract)

data model(3):
(1) simple column family & super column family [wiki page]
(2) op under a single row key is atomic per replica, no matter how many
columns are being read or written into

architecture:
paritioning(5.1)
consistent hashing
	departure or arrival of a node only affects its immediate neighbour, other
	nodes remain unaffected

replication(5.2)
	rack unaware: pick N-1 successors of the coordinators in the ring
	rack aware/data-center aware: leader/follower

failure detection(5.3)
accural failure detection
1/ failure detection should be flexible, which is achieved by decoupling it from the application being monitored
2/ different from normal heartbeat, use suspicion level between live and dead

bootstrapping(5.4)
initially randomly chooses a token for position within ring
mapping stored locally and in Zookeeper
every node is able to route request for a key to the corresponding node

local storage(5.6)
(1) leverage local file system
	a in-mem data structure and a file for every column family(5.7)
(2) dedicated disk for logging
(3) LSMT
1/ leveled compaction(memtable, SSTable)
2/ bloom filter: whether need to check current file
3/ column indices: jump to the right chunk on disk for column retrival
4/ SSTable: data, index, filter
	index: All writes are sequential to disk and also generate an index for 
	efficient lookup based on row key.

implementation:
(1) modules: partitioning, cluster membership, failure detection, storage engine
	module is handled in SEDA architecture
(2) system control message in UDP, application related message in TCP
(3) request handle stages
(4) rolling commit log for purging logs
	bit vector to indicate whether data has been committed
(5) support fast-sync(buffer log and data committing)
(6) immutable => no lock needed

Cassandra: the definite guide
(1) gossip for failure detection
Here is how the gossiper works: => TCP 3-way handshake
1. Periodically (according to the settings in its TimerTask), the G=gossiper will choose
a random node in the ring and initialize a gossip session with it. Each round of
gossip requires three messages.
2. The gossip initiator sends its chosen friend a GossipDigestSynMessage.
3. When the friend receives this message, it returns a GossipDigestAckMessage.
4. When the initiator receives the ack message from the friend, it sends the friend a
GossipDigestAck2Message to complete the round of gossip.

(2) data exchanging
1/ During a major compaction, the server initiates a TreeRequest/
TreeReponse conversation to exchange Merkle trees with neighboring nodes. The
Merkle tree is a hash representing the data in that column family. After each update, anti-entropy algorithm performs a checksum
against the database and compares checksums of peers; if the checksums differ, then
the data is exchanged.
2/ read repair: The read operation blocks until the client-specified consistency 
level is met. If it is detected that some of the nodes responded with an 
out-of-date value, Cassandra will return the most recent value to the client. After 
returning, Cassandra will perform what’s called a read repair in the background. 
This operation brings the replicas with stale values up to date.

(3) tombstone